kasha classic com
well my name is mike Ibaka I'm head of
mercedes-benz classic and here we are in
front of ya the legendary carved the
21st century the mercedes-benz 300sl
also called let's say in different
countries the gullwing the story behind
this car is quite simple in 1952 some
engineers out of the race department
we're thinking about building a car
based on the 300 limousine for racing
purposes and so they took the engine and
the gearbox of the 300 big limousine and
tuned it a little bit up and build it a
tubular frame which made these doors
necessary the so-called gullwing doors
and they went racing with that car in
1952 the car won the championship and
they're generated the interest of at
that time the American importer of
mercedes-benz cars in the United States
maxi Hoffman and Hoffman came to the
board of the company and said I can sell
such car to the American market and
that's why daimler-benz at that time
decided to build that race car into a
serial configuration and with the
beginning of 1954 a little bit more than
1400 of these cars were built up to 90
57 and sold to interested people
worldwide who were happy to be in
possession of such a super sports car
and in their time well the base engine
came from the 300 limousine it was a
six-cylinder in-line it had three liters
capacity the interesting thing on the
engine of the gullwing was that it had
direct injection already in 1954 and it
generated 215 horsepower output
and it was a very powerful engine which
allowed with the longest axle ratio on
the car to drive nearly 250 kilometres
in 1954 well nearly all the celebrities
in cinema movies theatres and so on in
the mid 50's owned one of these cars
because it was chic to own it and to be
seen in it from Gary grant true sofia
Loren and named them the race history of
this car as i said is impressive because
the base for the serial gulping was the
race car from 1952 and the car won
nearly all the major races resulting in
the winning of the championship in 1952
more classic supercars please visit car
show classic calm